VFP may actually damage your DBF file:
Fox 2.x gives an "not a DBF file" error if the record counter is incorrect.
VFP ignores that and opens up the file anyway.
While in FP2.x the error is a nuisance it is also an advantage
1) it gives you a warning that something is wrong - you lost
some records in a transaction, etc. and steps can be taken
to repair the problem with a repair utility.
2) IF the header record counter is incorrect indicating
less records than actual records - for example having
11,000 records but the counter indicates only 10,400
records, in VFP you then lose the 600 records. But in
FP2.x you are alerted to the problem and can take steps
to repair the file. 

Memo pointer error buildup.
Memo pointers do get corrupt - proportionally to file
activity and the size of file.
Corruption occurs in several ways.
Illegal pointer: pointer indicates memo outside of memo file - easily
detectable with a Good File Repair Utility. This error may cause PACK
problems and of course loss of data.
Crossed pointers: Two or more pointers indicating the same memo - 
detectable with a GFRU. May cause pack problems and loss of data.
Wrong pointers: YES this happens and is normally undetectable - except
with the Recover Trace method. The problem builds up and eventually
causes a mess for end user.

Note that Corruption problems can build up slowly and often are not 
perceptible until the situation gets real bad. Therefore it can be 
extremely important to do do regular file error scans with a good error 
detection and repair utility.

Dissapering records:
1) The more common cause of "dissapearing" records is corrupt indexes
which is easy to fix with the DELETE TAG ALL / REINDEX ... sequence.

2) But there is another not so well known possibility of "decreased"
file header record counter.
Normally, a header record counter error is a too large counter value
and results in the "Not a Table/DBF file!" error message.

However, an error in the record counter showing less than actual
records WILL NOT result in the error message. Those aditional records
are not accessible AND when you APPEND or INSERT you
destroy those records.

There are other invisible forms of file corruption which build up
unnoticed - invalid delete flags, memo pointer errors, valid but wrong
memo pointers (YES! valid but wrong), etc. - until eventually the damage
or loss of data is extensive.

It may be a good idea to check your databases for errors periodically
with a good file error detection and repair utility.
